the United States has vetoed a un
Security Council resolution on a
ceasefire in Gaza 13 members voted in
favor with the UK abstaining the US says
the immediate humanitarian ceasefire
demanded in the document would only
benefit Hamas which uh it and other
countries consider a terrorist
group an unprecedented move by the UN
Secretary General brought them here I
fear the consequences could be
devastating for the security of the
entire region Antonio gutes used his
power to push for a un Security Council
vote on a ceasefire in Gaza he got the
vote but not the result he was hoping
for
against the United States vetoed the
draft resolution calling it rushed and
incomplete abens
abstentions although the United States
strongly supports a durable peace in
which both Israelis and Palestinians can
live in peace and security we do not
support this resolution's call for an
unsustainable ceasefire that will only
plant the seeds for the next
War the United Kingdom abstained saying
the draft did not condemn atrocities
Hamas committed on October 7th the final
vote tally 13 for the resolution one
against and one exstension
Palestinians this is a terrible day for
the security Council
let me repeat this is a terrible day for
the security Council we reject this
result and will continue resorting to
every legitimate Avenue to stop these
abhorent atrocities including resuming
the emergency session of the general
assembly the United Arab Emirates
drafted the ceasefire call here's their
representative to the UN speaking after
the vote
regrettably and in the face of Untold
misery this council is unable to demand
a humanitarian
ceasefire let me be clear against the
backdrop of the secretary General's
grave warnings the appeals by
humanitarian actors the world's public
opinion this Council grows isolated it
appears untethered from its own founding
document what is the message we are
sending Palestinians if we cannot T
night behind a call to Halt the
Relentless bombardment of Gaza indeed
what is the message we are sending
civilians across the world who may find
themselves in similar
situations the United Arab Emirates
asked what message the security Council
was sending to Palestinians in Gaza who
are facing Relentless bombardment and
said the inability to reach agreement on
a ceasefire left people in Gaza further
exposed to Untold misery
DW correspondent Benjamin Alvarez Gruber
has been following the vote from our
Bureau in
Washington the deputy us Envoy to the
United Nations said in New York during
this meeting and after the vote was cast
that the draft resolution calling for a
ceasefire in Gaza wasn't a quote diverse
from reality and would not move the
needle forward on the ground in any
concrete way this is not the first time
that we see this video by the United
States we saw it also in October when it
said that a ceasefire would only help
Hamas and it's quite similar to The View
that Israel also has but what's
interesting here is not just the view of
the US but that the UK abstained but
coming back to the US let's hear into
what the envoy of the United States had
to New
York the result of this Rush process was
an imbalanced resolution that was
divorced from reality that would not
move the needle forward on the ground in
any concrete way and so we regretfully
could not support
it we still cannot comprehend why the
resolution's authors declined to include
language condemning hamas's horrific
terrorist attack on Israel on October
7 an attack that killed over 1200 people
women children the
elderly people from a range of
nationalities burned alive gunned
down subject to obscene sexual
violence so Benjamin we see the US
contesting the wording of the resolution
is there any indication it could change
its position on a ceasefire or is that
far-fetched at the
moment F now looks farfetch but the
United Arab Emirates is not alone here
the the UAE is the only country that is
part of the security Council of the UN
but today there was a group of delegates
from Arab and Muslim minority countries
that urged an to hostilities and one of
them is Saudi foreign minister who said
our message is we believe it is
absolutely necessary to end the fighting
immediately the US is on the side of
Israel here saying that it would only
help Hamas if there is a ceasefire now
but we can expect the international
pressure to continue the US says it's
not isolated but there are many
countries that are saying that a
ceasefire is needed now and that's also
what the Secretary General Antonio gues
said um activating this um article 99 of
the UN Charter where he addressed the
the representatives of the security
Council in New York D correspondent
Benjamin Alvarez grber thank you for
that
update a agencies are reiterating their
warning of a worsening humanitarian
situation in Gaza in the early weeks of
the conflict Israel told gaza's civilian
population to evacuate to the south of
the territory but fighting there has
intensified and food water and other
Essentials are in short
supply
this is a camp for displaced people in
hunis in the south of the Gaza
Strip entire families have moved here
during the intense
fighting life is a
[Music]
struggle the situation is really
difficult we haven't had bread for a
week there's nothing even when we get it
I give it in pieces to my children my
husband and I do not eat we can go
without but the children
can't we make a meal last the whole day
so instead of having breakfast lunch and
dinner we have one meal Before Sunset
because there's nothing we don't have
the financial means it takes me three or
4 hours to get one can of
beans the World Health Organization has
warned the humanitarian situation in
Gaza is
desperate children and people actually
begging and crying for water we're at
that level where the most normal and
basic supplies are not available anymore
meanwhile there's no letup in the
fighting between Hamas militants and the
Israel Defense Forces IDF troops
continue intense close quarter combat
with Hamas terrorists in KH Yunis and in
the north as we continue to dism the
Hamas Terror State over the past day the
IDF has struck around 450 Targets in the
Gaza Strip from the air sea and
land for the medical staff in this
Hospital in Kan yunas it's a different
battle they're dealing
with the struggle to help those caught
up in the
fighting